# Why React Query


The problem is in the React real world, there's more to building an app than just the UI layer. It's not uncommon to need to compose and reuse non-visual logic as well.
This is the fundamental problem that React hooks were created to solve.
useAnything: part of what makes hooks so composable is you can create your own hooks which leverage React hooks or other custom hooks.
What's interesting about all of the _built-in hooks_ that React comes with, as you've probably experienced first hand, is that _none of them are dedicated to arguably the most common use-case for building a real world web app – data fetching_.

## Problems

Whenever we call fetch, because it's an asynchronous request, _we have no idea how long that specific request will take to resolve_. It's completely possible that, while we're in the process of waiting for a response, the user clicks one of our buttons, which causes a re-render, which causes our effect to run again with a different id.
In this scenario, we now have two requests in flight, both with different ids. Worse, we have no way of knowing which one will resolve first.
Really what we want to do is to tell React to ignore any responses that come from requests that were made in effects that are no longer relevant. 

data duplication:
By default, the fetched data is only ever local to the component that fetched it – that's how React works. That means, for every component that needs the same data, we have to refetch it.

## React Query is not a data fetching library

It's managing that data over time. It is as an async state manager that is also acutely aware of the needs of server state.

In fact, React Query doesn't even fetch any data for you. YOU provide it a promise (whether from fetch, axios, graphql, IndexedDB, etc.), and React Query will then take the data that the promise resolves with and make it available wherever you need it throughout your entire application.

## fundamental principles of React Query 

1. React Query will always give us cached data instantly, even if it's not fresh.
2. By default, all queries are instantly considered stale since staleTime defaults to 0.
3. If a query is stale, React Query will refetch the data and update the cache when a trigger occurs
4. There are four triggers: when a queryKey changes, a new Observer mounts, the window receives a focus event, and the device goes online