# refetchInterval

## fundamental principles of React Query 

1. React Query will always __give us cached data instantly, even if it's not fresh__.
2. By default, __all queries are instantly considered stale since staleTime defaults to 0__.
3. If a query is stale, __React Query will refetch the data and update the cache when a trigger occurs__
4. There are four __triggers__: when a __queryKey changes__, a __new Observer mounts__, the __window receives a focus event__, and the __device goes online__.

there's still one scenario that these principles don't cover

## refetchInterval - fetching data at a specific point in time

What if you'd want to __make sure that the data is always up to date after a certain amount of time__ – regardless of if a "trigger" occurs.

To achieve this, you need a way to tell React Query that it should invoke the queryFn periodically at a specific interval, no matter what.

This concept is called __polling__, and you can achieve it by passing a _refetchInterval_ property to useQuery when you invoke it.

```ts
useQuery({
  queryKey: ['repos', { sort }],
  queryFn: () => fetchRepos(sort),
  refetchInterval: 5000 // 5 seconds
})
```

Now with a refetchInterval of 5000, the queryFn will get invoked every 5 seconds, regardless of if there's a trigger or if the query still has fresh data.

Because of this, refetchInterval is best suited for scenarios where you have data that changes often and you always want the cache to be as up to date as possible.

It's important to note that the refetchInterval timer is intelligent. If a traditional trigger occurs and updates the cache while the timer is counting down, the timer will reset.

## refetchInternal as a function

Another cool aspect of refetchInterval is __you can continue polling until a certain condition is met__. This comes in handy if you have an endpoint that performs an expensive task, and you want to poll until that task is finished.

_If you return false from the function you pass to refetchInterval, then the interval will be turned off._

```ts
useQuery({
  queryKey: ['totalAmount'],
  queryFn: () => fetchTotalAmount(),
  refetchInterval: (query) => {
    if (query.state.data?.finished) {
      return false / turn off interval
    }

    return 3000 // 3 seconds
  }
})
```