# Infinite Query

With infinite lists, it actually works to our disadvantage that useQuery can only display data for the current queryKey.

What we really want is to __have a single cache entry that we can append to every time we get new data__.

## useInfiniteQuery 

It works mostly the same as useQuery, but there are some fundamental differences.
When invoking fetchPosts with an infinite list, you're mostly likely going to start at page 1 and increment from there.

With that said, if useInfiniteQuery is managing this page for us, it would make sense that we need to give it a few things in order to do that.

Specifically, we need to tell it what page to start at (1, in our case) and how to get to the next page.

To tell it what page to start at, you can give it an __initialPageParam__. This value will be passed to the queryFn the first time it's called so that you can pass it on to your API request.

```ts
function usePosts() {
  return useInfiniteQuery({
    queryKey: ['posts'],
    queryFn: ({ pageParam }) => fetchPosts(pageParam),
    initialPageParam: 1,
  })
}

```

We haven't used it before, but React Query will always pass an object (called QueryFunctionContext) to the queryFn with information it has about the query itself.

As you can see, it's via the QueryFunctionContext that we can get access to the initial pageParam.

We can get nat page by adding a getNextPageParam method to our options object.

When invoked, React Query will pass the getNextPageParam method three arguments, lastPage, allPages, and lastPageParam.

- lastPage is the data from the last page fetched
- allPages is an array of all the pages fetched so far
- lastPageParam is the pageParam that was used to fetch the last page

Using these three arguments, you should be able to derive what the next page will be and return it. In our case, we'll take whatever the lastPageParam was an add 1 to it.

 if you want to tell React Query that there are no more pages left to fetch, you can return undefined.

 In our example, if the last page we fetched was empty, it's a safe assumption that we're out of pages.

```ts
function usePosts() {
  return useInfiniteQuery({
    queryKey: ['posts'],
    queryFn: ({ pageParam }) => fetchPosts(pageParam),
    initialPageParam: 1,
    getNextPageParam: (lastPage, allPages, lastPageParam) => {
      if (lastPage.length === 0) {
        return undefined
      }

      return lastPageParam + 1
    }
  })
}

// response 
{
 "data": {
   "pages": [
     [ {}, {}, {} ],
     [ {}, {}, {} ],
     [ {}, {}, {} ]
   ],
   "pageParams": [1, 2, 3]
 }
}

//And if you'd prefer to have a normal, flat array, you can always use JavaScript's built-in Array.flat method to flatten the array of pages.

const { data } = usePosts()

const posts = data?.pages.flat() // [ {}, {}, {} ]
```

## fetchNextPage 

useInfiniteQuery is managing the page for us. Because of this, it gives us a fetchNextPage function that, when invoked, will get the new pageParam by invoking getNextPageParam, and then call the queryFn with it.

So if we now add a button to the bottom of our list that invokes fetchNextPage, we'll get our first infinite list.

And if we wanted, we could make our button more intelligent by giving it some meta information about the state of the query. Specifically,

isFetchingNextPage will be true when the request for the next page is in flight
hasNextPage will be true if there's another page to fetch. This is determined by calling getNextPageParam and checking if undefined was returned.

```ts

function usePosts() {
  return useInfiniteQuery({
    queryKey: ['posts'],
    queryFn: ({ pageParam }) => fetchPosts(pageParam),
    staleTime: 5000,
    initialPageParam: 1,
    getNextPageParam: (lastPage, allPages, lastPageParam) => {
      if (lastPage.length === 0) {
        return undefined
      }

      return lastPageParam + 1
    }
  })
}

export default function Blog() {
  const { status, data, fetchNextPage } = usePosts()

  if (status === 'pending') {
    return <div>...</div>
  }

  if (status === 'error') {
    return <div>Error fetching posts</div>
  }

  return (
    <div>
      {data.pages.flat().map((post) => (
        <p key={post.id}>
          <b>{post.title}</b>
          <br />
          {post.description}
        </p>
      ))}

     <button
  onClick={() => fetchNextPage()}
  disabled={!hasNextPage || isFetchingNextPage}
>
  { isFetchingNextPage ? '...' : 'More' }
</button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

You __don't only have to have infinite queries in a single direction__. So far, we've only looked at queries that start at the beginning and then fetch forward to get more pages – but that might not always be the case.

For example, say you were building a __messaging app__ that supported deep linking to any message. In that scenario, the user would find themselves in the middle of a conversation and would need to fetch both backwards and forwards to get the full context.

fetching backwards follows a similar pattern as fetching forwards, just with more appropriately named values.

For example, instead of getNextPageParam that takes in lastPage, allPages, and lastPageParam, you'll use getPreviousPageParam that takes in firstPage, allPages, and firstPageParam.

```ts
useInfiniteQuery({
  queryKey,
  queryFn,
  initialPageParam,
  getNextPageParam: (lastPage, allPages, lastPageParam) => {
    if (lastPage.length === 0) {
      return undefined
    }

    return lastPageParam + 1
  }
  getPreviousPageParam: (firstPage, allPages, firstPageParam) => {
    if (firstPageParam <= 1) {
      return undefined
    }

    return firstPageParam - 1
  }
})
```

## useIntersectionObserver

infinite query is just triggering fetchNextPage when the user scrolls to the bottom of the list.

Whenever the element that the ref is attached to comes into view, entry.isIntersecting will be true.

Combine that with some 
useEffect magic, and we can trigger fetchNextPage when the user scrolls to the bottom of the list.

```ts
import * as React from "react"
import { useInfiniteQuery } from '@tanstack/react-query'
import { useIntersectionObserver } from "@uidotdev/usehooks";
import { fetchPosts } from './api'

function usePosts() {
  return useInfiniteQuery({
    queryKey: ['posts'],
    queryFn: ({ pageParam }) => fetchPosts(pageParam),
    staleTime: 5000,
    initialPageParam: 1,
    getNextPageParam: (lastPage, allPages, lastPageParam) => {
      if (lastPage.length === 0) {
        return undefined
      }

      return lastPageParam + 1
    }
  })
}

export default function Blog() {
  const { status, data, fetchNextPage, hasNextPage, isFetchingNextPage } = usePosts()

  const [ref, entry] = useIntersectionObserver();

  React.useEffect(() => {
    if (entry?.isIntersecting && hasNextPage && !isFetchingNextPage) {
      fetchNextPage()
    }
  }, [entry?.isIntersecting, hasNextPage, isFetchingNextPage])

  if (status === 'pending') {
    return <div>...</div>
  }

  if (status === 'error') {
    return <div>Error fetching posts</div>
  }

  return (
    <div>
      {data.pages.flat().map((post, index, pages) => (
        <p key={post.id}>
          <b>{post.title}</b>
          <br />
          {post.description}
          {index === pages.length - 3
              ? <div ref={ref} />
              : null}
        </p>
      ))}
    </div>
  )
}

```

## maxPages 

The idea is pretty straight forward – React Query refetches the first page in the cache (regardless of what initialPageParam is), calls getNextPageParam to get the next page, and then fetches that page. This process continues until all pages have been refetched or until undefined is returned from getNextPageParam.
It works this way for one important reason – __Consistency__.

 React Query can't take any shortcuts when it comes to refetches of infinite queries – it always has to fetch all the pages to guarantee consistency.

As you can imagine, if there were a lot of pages in the cache, this could be problematic both from a network and a memory perspective.

To avoid this problem, you can give useInfiniteQuery a maxPages option that limits the number of pages that React Query will keep in the cache.

So for example, if you had a maxPages of 3, even if you had bi-directional infinite queries, React Query would (intelligently) only keep three pages in the cache.
