# Managing Query Keys

You define a queryKey in a custom hook in one part of your app, and then in order to invalidate or mutate that query, you need to use the same key in another hook in a different part of your app.

Until this point, we've just been recreating the queryKey array and hoping for the best. It works, but it's the exact sort of thing that will derail your afternoon when you make a typo in one of the keys.

One approach to managing this complexity is to use Query Key Factories, where you define all of your queryKeys in a single location.

Now, anywhere you need access to a queryKey, you can do so by importing the todoKeys object.

```ts
export const todoKeys = {
  allLists: () => ['todos', 'list'],
  list: (sort) => ['todos', 'list', { sort }],
}

// Using Keys

import { useQuery } from '@tanstack/react-query'
import { todoKeys } from './keys'

export default function useTodos(sort) {
  return useQuery({
    queryKey: todoKeys.list(sort),
    queryFn: () => fetchTodos(sort)
  })
}

//...

import { useMutation } from '@tanstack/react-query'
import { todoKeys } from './keys'

useMutation({
  mutationFn,
  onSuccess: () => {
    queryClient.invalidateQueries({
      queryKey: todoKeys.allLists()
    })
  }
})
```

It's subtle, but now you don't need to worry about typos derailing your afternoon or the specific hierarchy of individual query keys.

## We can even take this a bit further 

If you're really worried about duplication by using a bit of composition.

To address this, you can create more specific keys by composing them from the more generic ones.

```ts
const todoKeys = {
  all: () => ['todos'] as const,
  allLists: () => [...todoKeys.all(), 'list'] as const,
  list: (sort: string) =>
    [...todoKeys.allLists(), { sort }] as const,
}
```

## Query Factories

The last thing on Query Key Factories is that it's recommended to create one factory per feature, and have all queryKeys in that factory start with the same prefix - usually the name of the feature. This will make sure keys won't overlap, but you can still keep the keys close to where they are used.

queryKey and queryFn are an inseparable pair since the queryKey defines the dependencies that are needed inside the queryFn. By separating them, you create a layer of abstraction that might make things harder to follow down the road.

The idea of Query Factories is to combine this pattern with the Query Key Factories pattern from earlier so that we have one object that will not only contain our queryKeys, but also the query options object.

Now we have the best of both worlds. You can still create queryKeys via composition, but now the queryKeys and the queryFns are kept together.

And as always, you can still customize options per useQuery invocation by merging the options object with any new property you want.

```ts
cconst todoQueries = {
  all: () => ({ queryKey: ['todos'] }),
  allLists: () => ({
    queryKey: [...todoQueries.all().queryKey, 'list']
  }),
  list: (sort) => ({
    queryKey: [...todoQueries.allLists().queryKey, sort],
    queryFn: () => fetchTodos(sort),
    staleTime: 5 * 1000,
  }),
  allDetails: () => ({
    queryKey: [...todoQueries.all().queryKey, 'detail']
  }),
  detail: (id) => ({
    queryKey: [...todoQueries.allDetails().queryKey, id],
    queryFn: () => fetchTodo(id),
    staleTime: 5 * 1000,
  }),
}
```

Admittedly, what makes this pattern a bit awkward to work with is the fact that different entries have different shapes. Some entries, like allLists, exist just to help us form a hierarchy and to make it easier to create queryKeys for other entries, like the queryKey for list. Other entries, like list and detail, are actual query objects that can be passed to useQuery.

It's n
