# Query Fundamentals

React Query because it feels like the perfect amount of magic for handling asynchronous server state.

## QueryClient 

It contains and manages the QueryCache - the location where all of the data lives. Without that cache, most of the features that make React Query a joy to use wouldn't work and it's via the QueryClient that you interact with the cache.

One thing to note about QueryClient is you need to make sure that you _create it outside of your most parent React component_. This makes sure _your cache stays stable even as your application re-renders_.

```typescript
import { QueryClient } from '@tanstack/react-query'

//make sure that you create it outside of your most parent React component
const queryClient = new QueryClient(options)

export default function App () {
  ...
}
```

## QueryClientProvider

Because _the QueryClient is created and located outside of React_, you'll then need a way to _distribute it throughout your application_ so that you can interact with it from any component.

This brings us to the first React–specific API you'll need, the QueryClientProvider.

By wrapping your main parent component inside of the provided QueryClientProvider component and passing the queryClient as a client prop, React Query will make the query cache available to you anywhere in your component tree.

The _QueryClient_ that gets passed down is a _static object that never changes_. This allows you to access the cache and interact with React Query wherever you want, without having to worry about _triggering unnecessary re-renders_.

```typescript
import { 
  QueryClient, 
  QueryClientProvider 
} from '@tanstack/react-query'

const queryClient = new QueryClient()

export default function App () {
  return (
    <QueryClientProvider client={queryClient}>
      <App />
    </QueryClientProvider>
  )
}
```

## useQuery 

Of course, the primary way you'll be interacting with the cache is via the useQuery hook – the workhorse of React Query.

Under the hood, _useQuery will subscribe to the QueryCache and re-render whenever the data it cares about in the cache changes_.

When you invoke useQuery, you'll almost always give it two things: 

1. queryKey: _How does it know which data it cares about?_
2. queryFn: _How does it know where to get that data from?_

By default, if there's already data located in the cache at the queryKey, useQuery will return that data immediately.

Otherwise, it will invoke the queryFn, take whatever data that the promise returned from the queryFn resolves with, put it in the cache at the queryKey, and then return it.

```typescript
const { data } = useQuery({
  queryKey: ['luckyNumber'],
  queryFn: () => Promise.resolve(7),
})
```

## queryKey & queryFn

The API is beautifully simple, but there are a few things to keep in mind.

First, because the queryKey will be used as the key of the Map in the cache, _queryKey must be globally unique_.

Second, _queryFn must return a promise that resolves with the data you want to cache_. This isn't terribly hard to remember since most of the time the queryFn will be an async request (usually using fetch) that returns a promise by default.

```typescript
const { data: pokemon, isLoading, error } = useQuery({
  queryKey: ['pokemon', id],
  queryFn: () => fetch(`https://pokeapi.co/api/v2/pokemon/${id}`)
    .then(res => res.json())
})
```

## Example

```typescript
import * as React from "react"
import PokemonCard from "./PokemonCard"
import ButtonGroup from "./ButtonGroup"
import { QueryClient, QueryClientProvider, useQuery } from '@tanstack/react-query'

const queryClient = new QueryClient()

function App () {
  const [id, setId] = React.useState(1)
  const { data: pokemon, isLoading, error } = useQuery({
    queryKey: ['pokemon', id],
    queryFn: () => fetch(`https://pokeapi.co/api/v2/pokemon/${id}`)
      .then(res => res.json())
  })

  return (
    <>
      <PokemonCard 
        isLoading={isLoading} 
        data={pokemon} 
        error={error}
      />
      <ButtonGroup handleSetId={setId} />
    </>
  )
}

export default function Root() {
  return (
    <QueryClientProvider client={queryClient}>
      <App/>
    </QueryClientProvider>
  )
}

```