# Working with Suspense

Until this point, any time where we've had to wait for data, we've done so by either checking if the status of the Query is pending, or even better, by using the derived isLoading value that useQuery gives us.

This works well, but the tradeoff is that it's coupled to an individual query and component. Often times when you're managing loading UI in a component based architecture, it's nice to have a broader, higher level loading handler that can manage loading states that occur anywhere in your app.

This is where Suspense can help us out, Suspense is a React component that allows you to coordinate loading states for asynchronous operations. In a way, Suspense is to loading states as Error Boundaries is to errors – and they operate in a similar way.

## useSuspenseQuery

To utilize these Suspense boundaries with React Query, you can use the provided useSuspenseQuery hook.

With useSuspenseQuery, it's as if you're handing the async lifecycle management over to React itself. React will then see the Promise returned from the queryFn and will show the fallback from the Suspense component until the Promise resolves.

If it rejects, it will forward the error to the nearest ErrorBoundary.

We no longer have to check for isLoading or status anymore. With useSuspenseQuery, you can assume that data will be available once the component actually renders, and it becomes decoupled from pending and error handling.

And similar to ErrorBoundaries, you can place as many Suspense boundaries as you want in your component tree, at any level of granularity – and you can have as many children elements as you'd like, all fetching data in parallel, and React will show the fallback until all the async operations are complete.And if we put each Query into its own Suspense boundary, we would see that data pops in individually as it's ready.

From an API perspective, useSuspenseQuery is very similar to useQuery, with a few exceptions.

- First, __it doesn't support the enabled option__. This makes sense if you think about it. If we could disable a query with the enabled option, that would take away the guarantee that you'll always have data when useSuspenseQuery is invoked. With Suspense, you don't need to worry about this at all since your Queries will run in serial when called in the same component.
- The second difference between useSuspenseQuery and useQuery is that __useSuspenseQuery doesn't support placeholderData__. With Suspense, the whole idea is that React will show the fallback loading indicator until all the async operations are complete and the data is ready – counteracting the need for placeholderData.But if useSuspenseQuery doesn't support placeholderData, how can we achieve the same effect? By using the platform using React itself!
First, let's wrap our whole App inside of an Error and Suspense boundary. Now the tricky part. How do we show the previous data while the new data is being fetched? To do this, _React has a built-in concept of transitions that allow you to do just that. While a transition is going on, React will prefer to keep showing the previous data instead of unmounting and showing a suspense fallback_. When you invoke useTransition, it will return you an array with two elements – a boolean telling you if a transition is in progress, and a function to start a transition. 

```ts
function RepoList({ sort, page, setPage }) {
  const { data } = useRepos(sort, page)
  const [isPreviousData, startTransition] = React.useTransition()

  return (
    <div>
      <ul style={{ opacity: isPreviousData ? 0.5 : 1 }}>
        {data.map((repo) => 
          <li key={repo.id}>{repo.full_name}</li>
        )}
      </ul>
      <div>
        <button
          onClick={() => {
            startTransition(() => {
              setPage((p) => p - 1)
            })
          }}
          disabled={isPreviousData || page === 1}
        >
          Previous
        </button>
        <span>Page {page}</span>
        <button
          disabled={isPreviousData || data?.length < PAGE_SIZE}
          onClick={() => {
            startTransition(() => {
              setPage((p) => p + 1)
            })
          }}
        >
          Next
        </button>
      </div>
    </div>
  )
}
```