# Server Side Rendering

Modern versions of Next.js have adopted React Server Components as a new architecture for enabling data fetching directly inside Async React components.

React Query is not a data fetching library. The primary benefit that React Query offers in this architecture is it will synchronize what the user sees on the screen with an external system like your database, without requiring explicit user interaction.

First, as always with React Query, you'll want to create an instance of QueryClient and pass that to the QueryClientProvider component.

However, unlike what you usually do, this time you'll want to create the queryClient inside of your component to ensure that data is not shared between different users and requests.

Along with that, since the QueryClient is now located inside of the component, to make sure that it's only created once per component lifecycle, you'll want to put it in a ref.

```ts
'use client'

import { QueryClient, QueryClientProvider } from '@tanstack/react-query'

export default function Providers({ children }) {
  const queryClientRef = React.useRef();

  if (!queryClientRef.current) {
    queryClientRef.current = new QueryClient();
  }

  return (
    <QueryClientProvider client={queryClientRef.current}>
      {children}
    </QueryClientProvider>
  );
}
```

initialData puts data directly into our QueryCache, and because we pass it to useQuery directly, TypeScript can now know that the Query will always be in success state.
To do this, we just need to figure out how to serialize the cache on the server so we can send it over the wire, and then hydrate the cache when React takes over on the client.
Thankfully, React Query comes with two APIs that make both parts of this pretty simple – dehydrate and HydrationBoundary.
__Because Server Components never re-render, we don't need to worry about re-creating the QueryClient on every render as we did before__.

Now that we have the QueryClient, we need to get data into it. The easiest way to do this is with prefetching.

The HydrationBoundary takes the state it receives and puts it into the client-side QueryCache, similar to initialData.

The difference is that it also does this on subsequent re-validations.

This means that every Client Component that uses our repoData Query will always have access to the latest data – no matter if that happened 
on the server or on the client.

```ts
import { QueryClient, dehydrate, HydrationBoundary } from '@tanstack/react-query'
import { fetchRepoData } from './api'
import Repo from './Repo'

export default async function Home() {
  const queryClient = new QueryClient()

  await queryClient.prefetchQuery({
    queryKey: ["repoData"],
    queryFn: fetchRepoData,
    staleTime: 10 * 1000,
  })

  return (
    <main>
      <HydrationBoundary state={dehydrate(queryClient)}>
        <Repo />
      </HydrationBoundary>
    </main>
  );
}
```