# Fetching Data

React Query doesn't fire the request itself, it isn't even aware of any of those things. All it cares about is the status of the Promise and the data it resolves with.

```typescript

function useRepos() {
  return useQuery({
    queryKey: ['repos'],
    queryFn: async () => {
      const response = await fetch('https://api.github.com/orgs/TanStack/repos')
      
      if (!response.ok) {
        throw new Error(`Request failed with status: ${response.status}`)
      }

      return response.json()  as Array<RepoData>
    },
  })
}

function Repos() {
  const { data, status } = useRepos()

  if (status === 'pending') {
    return <div>...</div>
  }

  if (status === 'error') {
    return <div>Error fetching data 😔</div>
  }

  return (
    <ul>
      { data.map(repo => <li key={repo.id}>{repo.full_name}</li>) }
    </ul>
  )
}

```

First, we were able to _get rid of our try/catch code_. In order to tell React Query that an error occurred, and therefore, to set the status of the query to error, all you have to do is throw an error in your queryFn.

Second, we were able to _return response.json() directly_. As you know, your query function should return a promise that eventually resolves with the data you want to cache. That's exactly what we're doing here, since response.json() returns a promise that resolves with the parsed JSON data.

## Typescript considerations

For TypeScript Users
Make sure your queryFn always has a return type specified. Otherwise, data will default to any.

async function fetchRepos(): Promise<Array<RepoData>>
Show More
Alternatively, you can use a type assertion when calling response.json:

return response.json() as Array<RepoData>


Please _do not provide type parameters (generics) to the useQuery call-side_.

This is usually the worst possible solution to the problem and it can introduce other issues since useQuery has more than one type parameter, and this will ruin type inference for all of them.

// ❌ Don't do this
useQuery<Array<RepoData>>({ queryKey, queryFn })