# Query Dependencies

The real world is not so static. In fact, static endpoints are usually the exception, not the norm.
you're assuming that _React Query will re-run the queryFn whenever the component re-renders. That's not how it works_.

In hindsight, this should be quite obvious. _A component can re-render for a variety of reasons, and we don't want to refetch whenever that happens_.

__Whenever a value in the queryKey array changes, React Query will re-run the queryFn__. What that means is that anything you use inside of the queryFn should also be included in the queryKey array.

```typescript
import { useQuery } from '@tanstack/react-query'

export default function useRepos(sort) {
  return useQuery({
    queryKey: ['repos', { sort }],
    queryFn: async () => {
      const response = await fetch(
        `https://api.github.com/orgs/TanStack/repos?sort=${sort}`
      )
      
      if (!response.ok) {
        throw new Error(`Request failed with status: ${response.status}`)
      }

      return response.json()
    },
  })
}

```

As you know, _queryKeys directly correspond to entries in the cache_. After all, they are the key of our cache's Map.
When a value in the queryKey array changes, something interesting happens – _our observer changes what it's observing_.

It goes from being subscribed to one key to another:

```text
  -['repos', { sort: 'created' }]
  +['repos', { sort: 'updated' }]
```

From there, it tries to read the data from the cache for that key.

If we're switching to it for the first time, there probably isn't any data available for that cache entry, so a new one is created for us.

The new entry starts out in a pending state, and the queryFn is called to fetch the data.

As it relates to our example, that's also why we see the ... whenever a new sort is selected for the first time, just like we did when the component was first mounted.

Now, what do you think happens if we switch back to a queryKey that is already in the cache? In our example, created.

The observer changes back again, but this time, __our cache for this key is already filled__, so useQuery is able to instantly give us that data and the state of the query goes directly to success.
__By storing data by its dependencies, React Query makes sure that fetches with different parameters will never overwrite each other.__ Instead, they are cached independently alongside each other under different keys, so that you get constant time lookups when switching between them.

After all, that is mostly what __caching__ is about: __being able to deliver data that we have previously fetched as quickly as possible__. And conveniently, this is also what allows us to trigger automatic fetches if a value in the queryKey changes.

The only thing you need to make sure of, is to __include every value that you use inside the queryFn, in the queryKey array__.

Of course, doing this manually can become error prone if more parameters are added over time. That's why React Query also comes with its own eslint-plugin that can help you catch those human mistakes.

```typescript
@tanstack/eslint-plugin-query

```