# Data Synchronization

The invalidation of that cache is tricky. React Query try to keep the data we see on our screen, which is a representation of the state of the server at the time when the data was fetched, as up-to-date as possible. Server state is a living thing. It can change at any time and for many reasons. So in a way, you can think of React Query as a data synchronization tool. To solve this, we need to decide __when values in the cache should become invalidated__ – meaning, __the cache should resync with the server state__.
The default configuration for most caches is to have the cache invalidate after a certain period of time. We can see this in action whenever we use the Github API by looking at the responses _cache-control_ header.
This header __instructs the browser to not make any further requests to the same url within the next 60 seconds__. Instead, it will serve the resource from the browser's cache.

```text
cache-control: public, max-age=60
```

The problem, as we've seen, is _React Query doesn't make the request and therefore, it doesn't know about the cache-control header_. Thankfully, React Query has a similar concept that it calls __staleTime__.

In React Query terms, _stale is the opposite of fresh_. __As long as a query is considered fresh, data will only be delivered from the cache__. And __staleTime__ is __what defines the time (in milliseconds) until a query is considered stale__.

So, for example, _if we set our staleTime in React Query to 60 seconds_, _we'd get similar behavior in that our queryFn would not be executed within that time frame_.

__Default staleTime equals 0__ i.e. This means that every time a component mounts or a query is re fetched, React Query will make a network request to get fresh data. Every query is instantly considered stale. 
It's a bit like re-renders in React. Yes, we all want to minimize our application's re-renders, but _having too many is significantly better than having too little_ where your view could be out of sync with your application's state. React Query defaults to trying to keep our data as up-to-date as possible by just assuming that any data it fetches is already instantly outdated.

If we fetch a Twitter post with all its likes and comments, it's likely stale pretty fast. On the other hand, if we fetch exchange rates that update on a daily basis, well, our data is going to be quite accurate for some time even without refetching.

```ts
useQuery({
  queryKey: ['repos', { sort }],
  queryFn: () => fetchRepos(sort),
  //During this period, React Query will not refetch the data from the server
  staleTime: 5 * 1000 // 5,000 ms or 5 seconds
})
```

By passing a __staleTime of 5000__ to useQuery, we tell React Query to __not make the query stale until the data is older than 5 seconds__. If you try to access this data again within that period, React Query will return the cached data without making an additional network request.

##  What happens when a query does become stale?

The answer, again, may be quite surprising: nothing.
Even after the stale time has passed, React Query has built-in mechanisms to refetch data based on certain triggers (like window focus or network reconnect), which can help keep your data up-to-date.

All a __stale query__ does is __instruct React Query to update the cache in the background when appropriate__.

Where the query is stale, after delivering the data, React Query resynchronizes in the background and updates the cache.

## How exactly does React Query know when to refetch the data and update the cache?

There are four scenarios (or "triggers") when this happens, and you've already seen the first one.

1. The queryKey changes
This is the trigger we see in the example above when the sort changes. __If a queryKey changes and the query is stale__, React Query will refetch the data and update the cache.

2. A new observer mounts
Observers are created by useQuery, so __every time we have a new component that mounts on the screen__ (like when a user opens a dialog or when they navigate to a different screen in our SPA), if the query is stale, React Query will refetch the data and update the cache.

3. The window receives a focus event
This is one of the triggers that helps React Query provide a nice user experience out of the box. __Whenever a user switches back to the tab where our application is running, if the query is stale, React Query will refetch the data__ and update the cache.

4. The device goes online
This is another example of React Query providing a delightful user experience out of the box. If a device goes offline and then reconnects (👋 you subway users), if the query is stale, React Query will refetch the data and update the cache.

## Customizing Triggers

If you think you're smarter than the defaults, you're more than welcome to turn them off when you create your query.

```ts
useQuery({
  queryKey: ['repos', { sort }],
  queryFn: () => fetchRepos(sort),
  refetchOnMount: false,
  refetchOnWindowFocus: false,
  refetchOnReconnect: false,
})
```

 If you're just wanting to be more conservative with your refetches, the better option is to just increase your staleTime.

And if you're really worried (and confident the data will never change), you can even make cached data fresh forever by setting staleTime to Infinity:

```ts
useQuery({
  queryKey: ['repos', { sort }],
  queryFn: () => fetchRepos(sort),
  staleTime: Infinity //if data will never change
})
```

__staleTime just tells React Query when to update the cache in the background when a trigger occurs.__

## quick recap 

1. React Query will always give us cached data instantly, even if it's not fresh.
2. By default, all queries are instantly considered stale since staleTime defaults to 0.
3. If a query is stale, React Query will refetch the data and update the cache when a trigger occurs
4. You can disable any trigger, but it's often better to think about how long a resource should be considered fresh and configure that as staleTime.