# Fetching on Demand

All of those examples had one thing in common - they all fetched their data immediately when the component mounted.

## enabled 

enabled allows you to pass a boolean value to useQuery that __determines whether or not the query function should run__.

In our case, enabled allows us to tell React Query that we only want to run the queryFn when we have a search term.

```ts
function useIssues(search) {
  return useQuery({
    queryKey: ['issues', search],
    queryFn: () =>  fetchIssues(search),
    enabled: search !== ''
  })
}

function IssueList ({ search }) {
  const { data, status } = useIssues(search)

  return (
    <p>
      <ul>
        {data.items.map((issue) => 
          <li key={issue.id}>{issue.title}</li>
        )}
      </ul>
    </p>
  )
}
```

Well that's not ideal.

Notice that before a user ever types into the input field, they're already seeing the ... loading indicator. Why is that?

Remember, a query can only ever be in one of three states - pending, success or error.

__success__ means __there is data available in the cache__, __error__ means __there was an error in trying to get the data to put in the cache__, and pending means literally anything else.

Right now, in order to show our loading indicator, we're checking if the query is in a pending state.

__pending__ only tells us that __there isn't data available in the cache and there wasn't an error in fetching that data__. _It doesn't tell us if the query is currently fetching or not_ – as we're assuming it does by treating it as the conditional for our loading indicator.

What we really need is a __way to know if the queryFn is currently being executed__. If it is, that will help us in determining if we should show the loading indicator or not.

## fetchStatus 

Thankfully, React Query exposes this via a _fetchStatus_ property on the query object.

```ts
const { data, status, fetchStatus } = useIssues(search)
```

When fetchStatus __is fetching__, the queryFn is being executed.
We can use this, along with the status of the query, to more accurately derive when we should show the loading indicator.

```ts
const { data, status, fetchStatus } = useIssues(search)

if (status === 'pending') {
  if (fetchStatus === 'fetching') {
    return <div>...</div>
  }
}
```

This makes sense. _If the status is pending_, that means _there isn't data available in the cache_. __If the fetchStatus is fetching__, that means the __queryFn is currently being executed__. _If there's no data in the cache and the queryFn is currently being executed, we should show the loading indicator_.

In fact, this pattern is so common that React Query provides a derived value, appropriately named __isLoading__, that is shorthand for the code above.

pending status means there's no data in the cache, and a fetching fetchStatus means the queryFn is currently being executed.

There are two scenarios we're not accounting for, and they're both represented by the code above. First is the scenario where our queryFn is not enabled because we don't have a search term and second is the scenario where our API request returns no data.
The solution to both is to never assume we have data without explicitly checking if the status of the query is success. Again, a status of success means there is data in the cache.

```ts
function useIssues(search) {
  return useQuery({
    queryKey: ['issues', search],
    queryFn: () =>  fetchIssues(search),
    enabled: search !== ''
  })
}

function IssueList ({ search }) {
  const { data, status, isLoading } = useIssues(search)

  if (isLoading) {
    return <div>...</div>
  }

  if (status === 'error') {
    return <div>There was an error fetching the issues</div>
  }

  if (status === "success") {
    return (
      <p>
        <ul>
          {data.items.map((issue) => 
            <li key={issue.id}>{issue.title}</li>
          )}
        </ul>
      </p>
    )
  }

  return <div>Please enter a search term</div>
}

export default function App() {
  const [search, setSearch] = React.useState('')

  return (
    <div>
      <Search onSubmit={(s) => setSearch(s)} />
      <IssueList search={search} />
    </div>
  )
}
```