# Garbage Collection

React Query's special sauce is its cache, and like any sauce, you can't trust it unless it has an expiration date, __because its cache is kept in memory which is finite__. Without purging the cache on occasion, it would grow indefinitely, causing memory issues on low-end devices.

Not only that, but there will always come a moment in a cache's life where it's deemed "too old" to be shown, even as stale data, to the user.

## automatic garbage collection

__Garbage Collection__ (GC) is a form of memory management where memory that has been allocated by a program will be automatically released after it is no longer in use. Most high level programming languages we use today, including JavaScript, utilize garbage collection in some capacity.

React Query does as well, but it does so with a __time-based collector__ called __gcTime__. This setting determines when a query's data should be removed from the cache – and it __defaults to 5 minutes__. IT doesn't mean React Query will remove data 5 minutes after it's been added to the cache and as long as the data is being actively used, it's not eligible for garbage collection. Every time a component mounts, it creates an Observer for each call to useQuery and makes query _active_ and if a query has no Observers is considered _inactive_.

## Search Example

Every search produces a new cache entry, and as soon as we search for something new, the previous entry becomes inactive (because the Observer will switch to observing the new queryKey).

If we search for the same term within the next 5 minutes, we'll get data served from the cache (and we might also get a background refetch if that data is stale).

We can modify __gcTime__

```ts
function useIssues(search) {
  return useQuery({
    queryKey: ['issues', search],
    queryFn: () =>  fetchIssues(search),
    enabled: search !== '',
    staleTime: 5000, // 5 seconds
    gcTime: 3000, // 3 seconds instead of default 5 min
  })
}

function IssueList ({ search }) {
  const { data, status, isLoading } = useIssues(search)

  if (isLoading) {
    return <div>...</div>
  }

  if (status === 'error') {
    return <div>There was an error fetching the issues</div>
  }

  if (status === "success") {
    return (
      <p>
        <ul>
          {data.items.map((issue) => 
            <li key={issue.id}>{issue.title}</li>
          )}
        </ul>
      </p>
    )
  }

  return <div>Please enter a search term</div>
}

export default function App() {
  const [search, setSearch] = React.useState('')

  return (
    <div>
      <Search onSubmit={(s) => setSearch(s)} />
      <IssueList search={search} />
    </div>
  )
}
```

First, search for useQuery again keeping your eye on the devtools.

You'll see once the data comes in, it will show up as fresh for 5 seconds (our staleTime) and there will be a 1 in the green box on the left of the cache entry. That number shows the Observer count and since we've currently called useQuery once for that key, we have 1 Observer.

Now, search for something else – say, "React".

You'll see that the old ["issues", "useQuery"] cache entry will be shown as inactive and the number next to it has changed to a 0, representing that its Observer has been removed.

Then, after 3 seconds (our gcTime), you'll see the cache entry disappear from the cache entirely.